.TH TAUDIT 1 "2026-04-27" "taudit 1.0.8" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
taudit \- pipeline authority scanner (GitHub Actions, Azure DevOps, GitLab CI)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B taudit
.RI [ global-options ]
.I command
.RI [ command-options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B taudit
parses CI/CD pipeline YAML, builds a directed
.B authority graph
(steps, secrets, identities, images, artifacts), and reports security findings
(propagation across trust zones, over\-privileged tokens, unpinned actions,
persisted credentials, and more).
.PP
Machine\-readable graph export conforms to
.I schemas/authority-graph.v1.json
.RB ( taudit graph " — see"
.BR " AUTHORITY GRAPH"
below).
.PP
Use
.B taudit scan
for discovery,
.B taudit verify
to enforce policy in CI, and
.B taudit graph
to emit the graph for downstream tools or diagrams.
.SH "AUTHORITY GRAPH"
One internal
.B AuthorityGraph
is exported in several ways:
.TP
.B "taudit graph \-\-format json"
Default. Versioned JSON for tools (tsign, axiom, automation). Schema:
.IR schemas/authority-graph.v1.json .
.TP
.B "taudit graph \-\-format dot"
Graphviz DOT. Pipe to
.B "dot \-Tsvg \-o graph.svg"
(requires Graphviz installed).
.TP
.B "taudit graph \-\-format mermaid"
Mermaid
.B flowchart LR
for pasting into Markdown (e.g. GitHub); no Graphviz required.
.TP
.B "taudit graph \-\-job \fIname\fR"
For
.B dot
and
.B mermaid
only: restrict output to the subgraph reachable from that job. JSON is always the full graph.
.PP
ASCII overview:
.IR docs/authority-graph.md
.RB ( section
"At a glance (one graph, three exports)"
). ADR:
.IR docs/adr/0001-graph-native-exports-and-leverage.md .
.SH COMMANDS
.SS "taudit scan \fIpath...\fR"
Scan pipeline files or directories for findings. As of v0.7,
.B scan
is
.B informational
: it exits
.B 0
on success even when findings exist (use
.B taudit verify
to gate merges). Exits
.B 2
on usage or structural errors (missing file, parse failure where fatal).
.TP
.B \-\-format \fIfmt\fR
.BR terminal " (default), " json ", " sarif ", " cloudevents .
.TP
.B \-\-output \fIfile\fR, \-o
Write report to file instead of stdout. When stdout is used and a pipe consumer closes early (e.g. 
.BR "| head" ),
.B taudit
exits
.BR 0
(broken pipe is not a failure). Same behaviour applies to other commands writing to stdout.
.TP
.B \-\-platform \fIplatform\fR
.BR auto " (default), " github\-actions ", " azure\-devops ", " gitlab .
.TP
.B \-
Read pipeline YAML from stdin.
.PP
See
.B taudit scan \-\-help
for baselines, suppressions, ignore files, and telemetry.
.SS "taudit map \fIpath...\fR"
Step\(muauthority table, or Graphviz digraph of the same graph model as
.BR "taudit graph \-\-format dot" .
.TP
.B \-\-format \fIfmt\fR
.BR text " (default) or " dot .
.TP
.B \-\-job \fIname\fR
Restrict to one job.
.SS "taudit graph \fIpath...\fR"
Emit the canonical graph. See
.B AUTHORITY GRAPH
above.
.SS "taudit diff \fIbefore\fR \fIafter\fR"
Compare findings between two pipeline files.
.TP
.B \-\-format
.BR terminal " (default) or " json .
.SS "taudit verify \fIpath...\fR"
Enforce policy invariants. Exits
.B 0
if no violation,
.B 1
if any violation,
.B 2
on usage/parse errors. Policy from
.BR \-\-policy "."
.SS "taudit explain \fR[\fIrule-id\fR]"
List all built\-in rules, or show one rule's full text and documentation link. Custom invariants: use
.BR "taudit invariants list" .
.SS "taudit invariants \fR..."
List or validate authority invariants (see
.BR "taudit invariants \-\-help" ).
.SS "taudit suppressions \fR..."
Manage
.I .taudit\-suppressions.yml
.RB ( "taudit suppressions \-\-help" ).
.SS "taudit baseline \fR..."
Per\-pipeline baselines under
.IR .taudit/baselines/
.RB ( "taudit baseline \-\-help" ).
.SS "taudit remediate \fR..."
Suggest/diff/apply/rollback remediations; write paths need
.BR \-\-unstable
.RB ( "taudit remediate \-\-help" ).
.SS "taudit completions \fIshell\fR"
Emit shell completions:
.BR bash ", " zsh ", " fish ", " powershell ", " elvish .
.SS taudit version
Print version.
.SS taudit update
Check crates.io for a newer release (also see
.BR TAUDIT_NO_UPDATE_CHECK ).
.SS "taudit emit\-spec \fItarget\fR"
Emit a CellOS cell JSON spec that runs
.BR taudit " scan."
.SH "STANDARD OUTPUT AND PIPELINES"
When a command writes a report to
.B stdout
and the downstream process closes the pipe
.RB ( EPIPE ),
.B taudit
exits
.BR 0
without treating it as an error, consistent with common Unix text tools. This does not apply when you use
.B \-o
to write to a file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disables ANSI color (see
.IR https://no\-color.org/ ).
.TP
.B TAUDIT_NO_UPDATE_CHECK
Set to any value to skip the post\-command version check and to change
.B taudit update
behaviour.
.TP
.BR TAUDIT_TELEMETRY_DIR ", " TAUDIT_RECEIPT_DIR ", " TAUDIT_LOG_DIR
Override artifact directories. Defaults are described under
.B ENVIRONMENT
in
.BR "taudit scan \-\-help" .
.TP
.B XDG_STATE_HOME ", " XDG_DATA_HOME
Used when the TAUDIT_* variables are unset.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B taudit scan
.B 0
on success (including when findings are present;
.B scan
is informational). 
.B 2
on usage or structural errors.
.TP
.B taudit verify
.B 0
no violations;
.B 1
at least one violation;
.B 2
usage or fatal parse/read error.
.TP
.B "Most other commands"
.B 0
success;
.B 2
usage or error as documented on each subcommand.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Full graph as JSON (default)
taudit graph .github/workflows/release.yml

# Mermaid for a README
taudit graph .github/workflows/release.yml \-\-format mermaid

# Graphviz
taudit graph .github/workflows/release.yml \-\-format dot | dot \-Tsvg \-o graph.svg

# Per\-job diagram (job IDs are workflow\-specific; see USERGUIDE.md in this repo)
taudit graph .github/workflows/release.yml \-\-format mermaid \-\-job build
taudit graph .github/workflows/security.yml \-\-format mermaid \-\-job taudit\-self\-scan

# Scan (informational)
taudit scan .github/workflows/

# Policy gate for CI
taudit verify .github/workflows/ \-\-policy invariants/starter/

# List rules; detail one
taudit explain
taudit explain unpinned_action

# Pipe\-friendly (exits 0)
taudit graph \-\-format mermaid .github/workflows/release.yml | head \-c 200
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR docs/authority-graph.md ", "
.IR USERGUIDE.md ", "
.IR docs/positioning.md ", "
.IR docs/verify.md
.PP
Project:
.B https://github.com/0ryant/taudit
.PP
Issues:
.B https://github.com/0ryant/taudit/issues
